> [Notes on Solidity]{.ul}

-   Solidity\'s code is encapsulated in contracts. A contract is the
    fundamental building block of Ethereum applications --- all
    variables and functions belong to a contract, and this will be the
    starting point of all your projects.

contract HelloWorld {

}

An empty contract HelloWorld would look like this.

-   The solidity code should start with a "version pragma" which is a
    declaration of the version of the Solidity compiler to be used by a
    code. This is done so that the code never breaks in case we have
    another version of compiler in the future.

Here we have used pragma solidity \>=0. 5. 0 \<0. 6. 0

![](vertopal_f34718ae59a246dfaa78c198269045bd/media/image1.png){width="4.819691601049869in"
height="1.375071084864392in"}

-   The state variables are permanently stored in contract storage which
    means they are written to Ethereum blockchain.

-   The uint data type is an unsigned integer that is its value must be
    non -negative.

-   As for data types in solidity we have:

-   For value types we have:

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   Boolean: This data type as all other languages accepts only two
    values which are True or False.

-   Integer: This data type is used to store integer values. In Solidity
    we avoid using negative values because blockchain does not deal with
    negative values neither with fractional values.

-   Fixed Point Numbers: They are not entirely supported but can be
    declared as fixed and unfixed for signed and unsigned fixed-point
    numbers of varying sizes respectively.

-   Address: It holds a 20-byte value which represents the size of an
    Ethereum address. An address can be used to get balance or to
    transfer a balance by balance and transfer method respectively.

-   Bytes and Strings: Bytes are used to store a fixed-sized character
    set while the string is used for storing the character set equal to
    or more than a byte.

-   Enums: It is used to create user-defined data types, used to assign
    a name to an integral constant which makes the contract more
    readable, maintainable, and less prone to errors. Options of enums
    can be represented by unsigned integer values starting from 0.

![](vertopal_f34718ae59a246dfaa78c198269045bd/media/image2.png){width="4.791912729658793in"
height="1.090333552055993in"}[\
]{.ul}

-   In Solidity, uint is actually an alias for uint256, a 256-bit
    unsigned integer. You can declare uints with less bits --- uint8,
    uint16, uint32, etc. But in general, you want to simply use uint
    except in specific cases.

-   This is how structs look like:

![](vertopal_f34718ae59a246dfaa78c198269045bd/media/image3.png){width="4.819691601049869in"
height="1.277843394575678in"}

-   There are two types of arrays in solidity that is fixed arrays and
    dynamic arrays.

![](vertopal_f34718ae59a246dfaa78c198269045bd/media/image4.png){width="4.791912729658793in"
height="1.5209109798775153in"}

-   Remember that state variables are stored permanently in the
    blockchain? So creating a dynamic array of structs like this can be
    useful for storing structured data in your contract, kind of like a
    database.

-   Creating a public array is useful for storing public data in the
    contract so that other contracts would be able to read from but not
    write to this array.

![](vertopal_f34718ae59a246dfaa78c198269045bd/media/image5.png){width="4.882194881889764in"
height="0.9861614173228347in"}

-   Here we have specified that where the variable name should be
    stored.

-   In solidity we can pass a value in the function by value or by
    reference.

-   We can use underscore to differentiate function variable names with
    the global variables.

![](vertopal_f34718ae59a246dfaa78c198269045bd/media/image6.png){width="4.861360454943132in"
height="3.8126957567804025in"}

-   In solidity the functions are by default public.

-   This might not be good because if the function is public, the
    contracts might be open to attacks.

![](vertopal_f34718ae59a246dfaa78c198269045bd/media/image7.png){width="4.798858267716535in"
height="1.3195122484689414in"}

-   It is a convention to start a private function using ( \_ ) before
    the function name.

Function returning values.

![](vertopal_f34718ae59a246dfaa78c198269045bd/media/image8.png){width="4.138787182852144in"
height="2.048611111111111in"}

-   The function declaration contains the type of return value of the
    function.

-   A function with view keyword can be only viewed and cannot be
    modified.

![](vertopal_f34718ae59a246dfaa78c198269045bd/media/image9.png){width="4.8127471566054245in"
height="1.0417202537182852in"}

-   A pure function means that we are not accessing any data in the app,
    its return value depends on the function parameter.

-   The solidity compiler automatically tells us when to use view or
    public or any other modifier.

-   Ethereum has the hash function keccack256 built in, which is a
    version of SHA3.

-   A hash function basically maps an input into a random 256 -- bit
    hexadecimal number. A slight change in the input will cause a large
    change in the hash.

-   Also important, keccak256 expects a single parameter of type bytes.
    This means that we have to \"pack\" any parameters before calling
    keccak256.

![](vertopal_f34718ae59a246dfaa78c198269045bd/media/image10.png){width="4.798858267716535in"
height="1.277843394575678in"}

Only 1 character change in the input can return totally different
values.

-   Secure random number generation in blockchain is a very difficult
    problem.

![](vertopal_f34718ae59a246dfaa78c198269045bd/media/image11.png){width="4.944698162729659in"
height="2.8751476377952754in"}

-   Events are a way for our contract to communicate that something
    happened on the blockchain to your app front end, which can be
    'listening' for certain events and take action when they happen.

![](vertopal_f34718ae59a246dfaa78c198269045bd/media/image12.png){width="4.819691601049869in"
height="2.257060367454068in"}

-   Ethereum has a JavaScript library called Web3.js .

-   We need JavaScript frontend that can interact with our contracts.

Here \'s how we would access our contract:

var abi = /\* abi generated by the compiler \*/

    var ZombieFactoryContract = web3.eth.contract(abi)

var contractAddress = /\* our contract address on Ethereum after
deploying \*/

    var ZombieFactory = ZombieFactoryContract.at(contractAddress)

        // \`ZombieFactory\` has access to our contract\'s public
functions and events

// some sort of event listener to take the text input:

\$(\"\#ourButton\").click(function(e) {

    var name = \$(\"\#nameInput\").val()

        // Call our contract\'s \`createRandomZombie\` function:

    ZombieFactory.createRandomZombie(name)

})

// Listen for the \`NewZombie\` event, and update the UI

var event = ZombieFactory.NewZombie(function(error, result) {

    if (error) return

    generateZombie(result.zombieId, result.name, result.dna)

})

// take the Zombie dna, and update our image

function generateZombie(id, name, dna) {

    let dnaStr = String(dna)

        // pad DNA with leading zeroes if it\'s less than 16 characters

    while (dnaStr.length \< 16)

        dnaStr = \"0\" + dnaStr

    let zombieDetails = {

        // first 2 digits make up the head. We have 7 possible heads, so
% 7

        // to get a number 0 - 6, then add 1 to make it 1 - 7. Then we
have 7

        // image files named \"head1.png\" through \"head7.png\" we load
based on

        // this number:

        headChoice: dnaStr.substring(0, 2) % 7 + 1,

        // 2nd 2 digits make up the eyes, 11 variations:

        eyeChoice: dnaStr.substring(2, 4) % 11 + 1,

        // 6 variations of shirts:

        shirtChoice: dnaStr.substring(4, 6) % 6 + 1,

        // last 6 digits control color. Updated using CSS filter:
hue-rotate

        // which has 360 degrees:

        skinColorChoice: parseInt(dnaStr.substring(6, 8) / 100 \* 360),

        eyeColorChoice: parseInt(dnaStr.substring(8, 10) / 100 \* 360),

        clothesColorChoice: parseInt(dnaStr.substring(10, 12) / 100 \*
360),

        zombieName: name,

        zombieDescription: \"A Level 1 CryptoZombie\",

    }

    return zombieDetails

}

What JavaScript does is that it takes the values generated in
zombieDetails above and use some browser based JavaScript magic like
Vue.js to swap out the images and apply CSS filters.

-   The Ethereum blockchain is made up of accounts, just like bank
    accounts. An account has a balance of Ether (the currency used on
    the Ethereum blockchain), and we can send and receive Ether payments
    to other accounts, just like the bank account money transfer.

-   Each account has an address, which we can think of like a bank
    account number. It is a unique identifier that points to that
    account, and it looks like this.

-   It is a unique identifier that points to that account, and it looks
    like this:

0x0cE446255506E92DF41614C46F1d6df9Cc969183

> ![](vertopal_f34718ae59a246dfaa78c198269045bd/media/image13.png){width="4.819691601049869in"
> height="1.125057961504812in"}
>
> Syntax of mapping
>
> Mapping is essentially a key value store for storing and looking up
> data. Here, in first example address is a key and uint is a value and
> in the second example uint is a key and string is a value.

-   In solidity, there are certain global variables that are available
    to all functions. One of these is msg. sender, which refers to the
    address of the person or smart contracts who called the current
    function.

-   In solidity, function execution always needs to start with an
    external caller. A contract will just sit on the blockchain doing
    nothing until someone calls one of its functions. So, there will
    always be a msg. sender.

![](vertopal_f34718ae59a246dfaa78c198269045bd/media/image14.png){width="4.923863735783027in"
height="3.166829615048119in"}

-   In the above example, anyone could call setMyNumber and store a uint
    in our contract, which would be tied to their address. And when they
    called whatIsMyNumber, they would be returned the uint that they
    stored.

-   Using msg.sender gives us the security of the Ethereum blockchain -
    the only way to modify someone else's data would be to steal the
    private key associated with their Ethereum address.

-   For checking a condition in solidity, we use require. It throws an
    error and stops executing if some condition is not true.

![](vertopal_f34718ae59a246dfaa78c198269045bd/media/image15.png){width="4.875250437445319in"
height="2.1320538057742784in"}

-   If we call this function with sayHiToVitalik (" Vitalik "). It will
    return "Hi" and for any other input, it will throw an error and not
    execute.

![](vertopal_f34718ae59a246dfaa78c198269045bd/media/image16.png){width="4.833581583552056in"
height="2.65291447944007in"}

-   Example of inheritance in solidity.

-   BabyDoge inherits from Doge and it will have access to both
    catchphrase( )

and anothercatchphrase( ).

![](vertopal_f34718ae59a246dfaa78c198269045bd/media/image17.png){width="4.854416010498688in"
height="1.3820155293088363in"}

-   Meaning of ( . /) is that the file someothercontract.sol is in same
    directory as the current contract.

-   Storage refers to variables stored permanently on the blockchain and
    memory variables are temporary, and are erased between external
    function calls to our contract. We can think of it like our
    computer's hard disk VS RAM.

-   State variables are by default storage and written permanently to
    the blockchain, while variables declared inside functions are memory
    and will disappear when the function call ends.

-   Most of the time, we do not need to use these keywords because
    solidity handles them by default but in some situations like dealing
    with structs and arrays within functions we might need to specify.

![](vertopal_f34718ae59a246dfaa78c198269045bd/media/image18.png){width="5.9655839895013125in"
height="5.215545713035871in"}

![](vertopal_f34718ae59a246dfaa78c198269045bd/media/image19.png){width="5.9655839895013125in"
height="2.437625765529309in"}

-   In addition to public and private, solidity has two more types of
    visibility for functions: internal and external.

-   Internal is same as private, except that it is also accessible to
    contracts that inherit from this contract.

-   External is similar to public, except that these functions can only
    be called outside the contract - they cannot be called by other
    functions inside the contract.

![](vertopal_f34718ae59a246dfaa78c198269045bd/media/image20.png){width="4.840526027996501in"
height="4.069653324584427in"}

![](vertopal_f34718ae59a246dfaa78c198269045bd/media/image21.png){width="5.875301837270341in"
height="2.729306649168854in"}

This is a contract where anyone could store their lucky number, and it
will be associated with their Ethereum address. Then anyone else could
look up that person's lucky number using their address.

![](vertopal_f34718ae59a246dfaa78c198269045bd/media/image22.png){width="5.81974300087489in"
height="0.840320428696413in"}

Declaring the interface for accessing the function getNum. We can see
that the function ends with a semi colon instead of any brackets and
this is how the compiler recognizes that this is an interface.

-   In solidity, we can declare multiple values from a function.

![](vertopal_f34718ae59a246dfaa78c198269045bd/media/image23.png){width="4.903029308836396in"
height="0.798652668416448in"}

-   We can use this contract in our interface as follows:-

![](vertopal_f34718ae59a246dfaa78c198269045bd/media/image24.png){width="4.778023840769904in"
height="2.944595363079615in"}

In this way, our contract can interact with any other contract on the
Ethereum blockchain, as long as they expose those functions as public or
external.

Handling multiple return values:

![](vertopal_f34718ae59a246dfaa78c198269045bd/media/image25.png){width="4.291666666666667in"
height="3.2222222222222223in"}

![](vertopal_f34718ae59a246dfaa78c198269045bd/media/image26.png){width="4.875250437445319in"
height="1.7500896762904636in"}

If statements in Solidity look just like JavaScript.

We can interact with our deployed contract using JavaScript and web3.js
by:

![](vertopal_f34718ae59a246dfaa78c198269045bd/media/image27.png){width="4.498501749781277in"
height="3.9375in"}

![](vertopal_f34718ae59a246dfaa78c198269045bd/media/image28.png){width="4.548893263342082in"
height="1.9791666666666667in"}

-   After we deploy a contract to Ethereum, it is immutable, which means
    that it can never be modified or updated again.

-   The initial code we deploy to a contract is there to stay,
    permanently, on the blockchain. This is one reason security is such
    a huge concern in Solidity. If there is a flaw in our contract code,
    there is no way for us to patch it later. We should have to tell our
    users to start using a different contract address that has the fix.

-   This is also a feature of smart contracts. The code is law. If we
    read the code of a smart contract and verify it, we can be sure that
    every time we call a function it is going to do exactly what the
    code says it will do. No one can later change the function and give
    us some unexpected results.

-   We don't want the ability to update this address in our contract,
    but we don't want everyone to be able to update it. To handle cases
    like this, we make contracts Ownable -- meaning they have an owner (
    us ) who has special privileges.

This is the Ownable contract taken from the OpenZeppelin Solidity
library. OpenZeppelin is a library of secure and community -- vetted
smart contracts that we can in our own DApps.

/\*\*

 \* \@title Ownable

 \* \@dev The Ownable contract has an owner address, and provides basic
authorization control

 \* functions, this simplifies the implementation of \"user
permissions\".

 \*/

contract Ownable {

  address private \_owner;

  event OwnershipTransferred(

    address indexed previousOwner,

    address indexed newOwner

  );

  /\*\*

   \* \@dev The Ownable constructor sets the original \`owner\` of the
contract to the sender

   \* account.

   \*/

  constructor() internal {

    \_owner = msg.sender;

    emit OwnershipTransferred(address(0), \_owner);

  }

  /\*\*

   \* \@return the address of the owner.

   \*/

  function owner() public view returns(address) {

    return \_owner;

  }

  /\*\*

   \* \@dev Throws if called by any account other than the owner.

   \*/

  modifier onlyOwner() {

    require(isOwner());

    \_;

  }

  /\*\*

   \* \@return true if \`msg.sender\` is the owner of the contract.

   \*/

  function isOwner() public view returns(bool) {

    return msg.sender == \_owner;

  }

  /\*\*

   \*

\@dev Allows the current owner to relinquish control of the contract.

   \* \@notice Renouncing to ownership will leave the contract without
an owner.

   \* It will not be possible to call the functions with the
\`onlyOwner\`

   \* modifier anymore.

   \*/

  function renounceOwnership() public onlyOwner {

    emit OwnershipTransferred(\_owner, address(0));

    \_owner = address(0);

  }

  /\*\*

   \* \@dev Allows the current owner to transfer control of the contract
to a newOwner.

   \* \@param newOwner The address to transfer ownership to.

   \*/

  function transferOwnership(address newOwner) public onlyOwner {

    \_transferOwnership(newOwner);

  }

  /\*\*

   \* \@dev Transfers control of the contract to a newOwner.

   \* \@param newOwner The address to transfer ownership to.

   \*/

  function \_transferOwnership(address newOwner) internal {

    require(newOwner != address(0));

    emit OwnershipTransferred(\_owner, newOwner);

    \_owner = newOwner;

  }

}

-   We know what are constructors, modifiers are kind of half functions
    that are used to modify other functions, usually to check some
    requirements prior to execution.

-   In this case, onlyOwner can be used to limit access so only the
    owner of the contract can run this function.

-   The Ownable contract does the following things: when a contract is
    created, its constructor sets the owner to msg . sender (the person
    who deployed it).

-   It adds an onlyOwner modifier, which can restrict access to certain
    functions to only the owner.

-   It allows us to transfer the contract to a new owner.

-   The onlyOwner is such a common requirement for contracts that most
    solidity DApps start with a copy / paste of this Ownable contract,
    and then their first contract inherits from it.

pragma solidity \>=0.5.0 \<0.6.0;

/\*\*

 \* \@title Ownable

 \* \@dev The Ownable contract has an owner address, and provides basic
authorization control

 \* functions, this simplifies the implementation of \"user
permissions\".

 \*/

contract Ownable {

  address private \_owner;

  event OwnershipTransferred(

    address indexed previousOwner,

    address indexed newOwner

  );

  /\*\*

   \* \@dev The Ownable constructor sets the original \`owner\` of the
contract to the sender

   \* account.

   \*/

  constructor() internal {

    \_owner = msg.sender;

    emit OwnershipTransferred(address(0), \_owner);

  }

  /\*\*

   \* \@return the address of the owner.

   \*/

  function owner() public view returns(address) {

    return \_owner;

  }

  /\*\*

   \* \@dev Throws if called by any account other than the owner.

   \*/

  modifier onlyOwner() {

    require(isOwner());

    \_;

  }

  /\*\*

   \* \@return true if \`msg.sender\` is the owner of the contract.

   \*/

  function isOwner() public view returns(bool) {

    return msg.sender == \_owner;

  }

  /\*\*

   \* \@dev Allows the current owner to relinquish control of the
contract.

   \* \@notice Renouncing to ownership will leave the contract without
an owner.

   \* It will not be possible to call the functions with the
\`onlyOwner\`

   \* modifier anymore.

   \*/

  function renounceOwnership() public onlyOwner {

    emit OwnershipTransferred(\_owner, address(0));

    \_owner = address(0);

  }

  /\*\*

   \* \@dev Allows the current owner to transfer control of the contract
to a newOwner.

   \* \@param newOwner The address to transfer ownership to.

   \*/

  function transferOwnership(address newOwner) public onlyOwner {

    \_transferOwnership(newOwner);

  }

  /\*\*

   \* \@dev Transfers control of the contract to a newOwner.

   \* \@param newOwner The address to transfer ownership to.

   \*/

  function \_transferOwnership(address newOwner) internal {

    require(newOwner != address(0));

    emit OwnershipTransferred(\_owner, newOwner);

    \_owner = newOwner;

  }

}

-   Notice the onlyOwner modifier on the renounceOwnership function.
    When we call the renounceOwnership, the code inside onlyOwner
    executes first. When it hits \_; statement in the onlyOwner, it goes
    back and executes the code inside the renounceOwnership.

-   While there are other ways to use modifiers, one of the most common
    use -- cases is to add a quick require check before a function
    executes.

-   In case of onlyOwner adding require makes it so only the owner of
    the contract can call that function.

![](vertopal_f34718ae59a246dfaa78c198269045bd/media/image29.png){width="5.840577427821522in"
height="3.0904363517060367in"}

-   In solidity, our users have to pay every time they execute a
    function on our DApp using a currency called gas. Users buy gas with
    Ether ( the currency on Ethereum ), so your users have to spend ETH
    in order to execute functions on our DApp.

-   How much gas is required depends upon the complexity of the logic of
    that function. Each individual operation has a gas cost based
    roughly on how much computing resources will be required to perform
    that operation.

-   The total gas cost of our function is the sum of the gas costs of
    all its individual operations.

-   Running a function costs money to the users, so code optimization is
    much more important in Ethereum than in other programming languages.

-   Ethereum is like a big, slow, but extremely secure computer. When we
    execute a function, every single node on the network needs to run
    the same function to verify its output -- thousands of nodes
    verifying every function execution is what makes Ethereum
    decentralized, and its data is immutable and censorship resistant.

-   The creators of Ethereum wanted to make sure that someone could not
    clog up the network with an infinite loop, or hog all the network
    resources with really intensive computations. That's why they made
    it so transactions are not free, and users have to pay for
    computation time as well as storage.

![](vertopal_f34718ae59a246dfaa78c198269045bd/media/image30.png){width="6.069756124234471in"
height="2.1876126421697286in"}

-   We had learnt that there are other types of units: uint8, uint16,
    uint32 etc.

-   Normally there is no benefit to use these sub -- types because
    Solidity reserves 256 bits of storage regardless of the uint size.
    Using uint8 instead of uint ( uint256 ) won't save us any gas.

-   But there is exception that is inside structs:

![](vertopal_f34718ae59a246dfaa78c198269045bd/media/image31.png){width="5.069444444444445in"
height="1.611101268591426in"}

-   If we have multiple uints inside a struct, using a smaller -- sized
    uint when possible, will allow Solidity to pack these variables
    together to take up less storage.

-   In the code above 'mini 'will cost less gas than 'normal 'because of
    struct packing. For this reason, inside a struct we will want to use
    the smallest integer sub -- types we can get away with.

-   Also, we would want cluster the identical data types together that
    is put them next to each other in the struct so that Solidity can
    minimize the required storage space.

![](vertopal_f34718ae59a246dfaa78c198269045bd/media/image32.png){width="6.007252843394576in"
height="0.7083694225721785in"}

![](vertopal_f34718ae59a246dfaa78c198269045bd/media/image33.png){width="6.111424978127734in"
height="1.7709241032370953in"}

-   Solidity also contains the time units - seconds, minutes, hours,
    days, weeks and years. These will convert to a uint of the number of
    seconds in that length of time. So, 1 minutes is 60, 1 hours is 3600
    and 1 day is 86400.

-   An important practice is to examine all our public and external
    functions, and try to think of ways users might abuse them. Unless
    these functions have a modifier like onlyOwner, any user can call
    them and pass them any data they want to.

> ![](vertopal_f34718ae59a246dfaa78c198269045bd/media/image34.png){width="4.840526027996501in"
> height="3.3612839020122482in"}

-   In the above code we can see that the function modifiers can also
    take arguments.

-   We can clearly see here that olderThan modifier takes arguments just
    like a function does. The driveCar function passes its arguments to
    the modifier.

-   View functions don't cost any gas when they are called externally by
    user. This is because view functions don't actually change anything
    on the blockchain -- they only read the data. So, marking a function
    with view tells web3. js that it only needs to query our local
    Ethereum node to run the function, and it does not actually have to
    create a transaction on the blockchain ( which would need to be run
    on every single node, and cost gas ).

-   We can optimize our DApp's gas usage for our users by using read --
    only external view functions wherever possible.

![](vertopal_f34718ae59a246dfaa78c198269045bd/media/image35.png){width="4.861360454943132in"
height="1.7570352143482064in"}

-   One of the more expensive operations in Solidity is using storage --
    particularly writes.

-   This is because every time we write or change a piece of data, it is
    written permanently on the blockchain. Forever! thousands of nodes
    across the world need to store that data on their hard drives, and
    this amount of data keeps growing over time as the blockchain grows.
    So there's a cost to doing that.

-   We need to keep costs down and want to avoid ,writing data to
    storage except when absolutely necessary.

-   In other programming languages, looping over large data sets is
    expensive. But in Solidity, this is way cheaper than using storage
    if it is an external view function, since view functions don't cost
    our users any gas.

-   We can use the memory keyword with arrays to create a new array
    inside a function without needing to write anything to storage. The
    array will only exist until the end of the function call, and this
    is a lot cheaper gas - wise than updating an array in storage --
    free if it is a view function called externally.

![](vertopal_f34718ae59a246dfaa78c198269045bd/media/image36.png){width="4.8127471566054245in"
height="2.6876377952755908in"}

![](vertopal_f34718ae59a246dfaa78c198269045bd/media/image37.png){width="4.569679571303587in"
height="1.4861876640419946in"}

![](vertopal_f34718ae59a246dfaa78c198269045bd/media/image38.png){width="5.8127985564304465in"
height="4.632182852143482in"}

-   These modifiers can all be stacked together on a function definition
    as follows:

![](vertopal_f34718ae59a246dfaa78c198269045bd/media/image39.png){width="6.000308398950131in"
height="0.38196412948381453in"}

-   We have one more modifier which is payable. Payable functions are
    part of what makes Solidity and Ethereum so cool -- they are a
    special type of function that can receive ether.

-   When we call an API function on a normal web server, we cannot send
    US dollars along with our function call -- nor can we send bitcoin.
    But in Ethereum, because both the money ( Ether ), the data (
    transaction payload ), and the contract code itself all live on
    Ethereum, it is possible for us to call a function and pay money to
    the contract at the same time.

![](vertopal_f34718ae59a246dfaa78c198269045bd/media/image40.png){width="5.944749562554681in"
height="2.007047244094488in"} The comment is caller of the function.

-   Here msg.value is a way to see how much ether was sent to the
    contract, and Ether is a built in unit.

-   If someone calls this function from web3.js, it will be as follows:

![](vertopal_f34718ae59a246dfaa78c198269045bd/media/image41.png){width="5.986418416447944in"
height="0.6250317147856518in"}

![](vertopal_f34718ae59a246dfaa78c198269045bd/media/image42.png){width="5.944749562554681in"
height="0.6111428258967629in"}

-   Notice the value field, where the JavaScript function call specifies
    how much ether to send (0.001). If we think of the transaction like
    an envelope, and the parameters we sent to the function call are the
    contents of the letter we put inside, then adding a value is like
    putting cash inside the envelope - the letter and the money get
    delivered together to the recipient.

![](vertopal_f34718ae59a246dfaa78c198269045bd/media/image43.png){width="4.444673009623797in"
height="0.9792169728783902in"}

-   After we send ether to a contract, it gets stored in the contract's
    Ethereum account, and it will be trapped there -- unless we add a
    function to withdraw the Ether from the contract.

-   We can write a function to withdraw Ether from the contract as
    follows.

![](vertopal_f34718ae59a246dfaa78c198269045bd/media/image44.png){width="5.85446741032371in"
height="1.5209109798775153in"}

-   We cannot transfer Ether to an address unless that address is of
    type address payable. But in the code snippet above, \_owner
    variable is of type uint160 meaning that we must explicitly cast it
    to address payable.

-   Once we cast the address from uint160 to address payable, we can
    transfer Ether to that address using transfer function and address(
    this ). balance will return the total balance stored on the
    contract. So if 100 users had paid 1 Ether to our contract, address
    ( this ). balance would be equal to 100 Ether.

-   We can use transfer to send funds to any Ethereum address. For
    example, we could have a function that transfer Ether back to the
    msg.sender if they overpaid for an item.

-   Or in a contract with a buyer and a seller, we can save the seller's
    address in storage, then when someone purchases his item, transfer
    him the fee paid by the buyer : seller.transfer ( msg.value ) .

![](vertopal_f34718ae59a246dfaa78c198269045bd/media/image45.png){width="4.819691601049869in"
height="1.2986778215223098in"}

![](vertopal_f34718ae59a246dfaa78c198269045bd/media/image46.png){width="4.798858267716535in"
height="1.312567804024497in"}

-   This would take the timestamp of now, the msg.sender, and an
    incrementing nonce ( a number that is only ever used once, so we
    don't run the same hash function with the same input parameters
    twice ) .

![](vertopal_f34718ae59a246dfaa78c198269045bd/media/image47.png){width="4.882194881889764in"
height="1.2570089676290463in"}

![](vertopal_f34718ae59a246dfaa78c198269045bd/media/image48.png){width="6.125314960629921in"
height="5.215545713035871in"}

![](vertopal_f34718ae59a246dfaa78c198269045bd/media/image49.png){width="5.986418416447944in"
height="5.437779965004374in"}

-   A secure way to pull data in from outside of Ethereum is using
    oracles.

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   A token on Ethereum is basically just a smart contract that follows
    some common rules -- namely it implements a standard set of
    functions that all other token contracts share, such as
    transferFrom(address \_from, address \_to, uint256 \_tokenId) and
    balanceOf(address \_owner).

-   Internally the smart contract usually has a mapping, mapping(address
    =\> uint256) balances, that keeps track of how much balance each
    address has. So basically, a token is just a contract that keeps
    track of who owns how much of that token, and some functions so
    those users can transfer their tokens to other addresses.

![](vertopal_f34718ae59a246dfaa78c198269045bd/media/image50.png){width="6.090590551181102in"
height="5.069704724409449in"}

-   When implementing a token contract, the first thing we do is copy
    the interface to its own Solidity file and import it,
    ![](vertopal_f34718ae59a246dfaa78c198269045bd/media/image51.png){width="1.8195384951881015in"
    height="0.25001312335958004in"}. Then we have our contract inherit
    from it, and we override each method with a function definition.

-   Solidity allows a contract to inherit from multiple contracts as
    follows:

![](vertopal_f34718ae59a246dfaa78c198269045bd/media/image52.png){width="5.903080708661418in"
height="0.8611548556430446in"}

![](vertopal_f34718ae59a246dfaa78c198269045bd/media/image53.png){width="5.958639545056868in"
height="0.34029527559055117in"}

-   The above function takes and address, and returns how many tokens
    that address owns.

![](vertopal_f34718ae59a246dfaa78c198269045bd/media/image54.png){width="5.937805118110236in"
height="0.4027985564304462in"}

-   The function above takes a token ID ( in our case, a ID ), and
    returns the address of the person who owns it.

-   This is very straightforward for us to implement, since we already
    have a mapping in our DApp that stores this information. We can
    implement this function in one line, just a return statement.

![](vertopal_f34718ae59a246dfaa78c198269045bd/media/image55.png){width="5.632234251968504in"
height="0.8125415573053368in"}

-   Here we have a function and a modifier with the same name but we
    cannot change the function name because we are following ERC721
    token standard, which means other contracts will expect our contract
    to have functions with these exact names defined.

-   The ERC721 spec has 2 different ways to transfer tokens:

![](vertopal_f34718ae59a246dfaa78c198269045bd/media/image56.png){width="3.6311307961504813in"
height="1.9552241907261592in"}

![](vertopal_f34718ae59a246dfaa78c198269045bd/media/image57.png){width="4.708333333333333in"
height="3.4970275590551183in"}

-   For checking that only the owner or the approved address of a token.

![](vertopal_f34718ae59a246dfaa78c198269045bd/media/image58.png){width="4.298832020997375in"
height="1.5903597987751532in"}

![](vertopal_f34718ae59a246dfaa78c198269045bd/media/image59.png){width="5.041925853018372in"
height="2.6876377952755908in"}

-   If users accidently transfer their tokens to address 0 which is
    called "burning" a token -- basically it is sent to an address that
    no one has the private key of, essentially making it unrecoverable.

What is overflow?

![](vertopal_f34718ae59a246dfaa78c198269045bd/media/image60.png){width="4.944698162729659in"
height="3.5696281714785654in"}

What is underflow ?

![](vertopal_f34718ae59a246dfaa78c198269045bd/media/image61.png){width="5.007201443569554in"
height="2.645968941382327in"}

-   To prevent these overflows and underflows OpenZeppelin has created a
    library called SafeMath that prevents these issues by default.

-   A library is a special type of contract in Solidity. One of the
    things it is useful for is to attach functions to native data types.

![](vertopal_f34718ae59a246dfaa78c198269045bd/media/image62.png){width="4.791912729658793in"
height="1.340346675415573in"}

![](vertopal_f34718ae59a246dfaa78c198269045bd/media/image63.png){width="5.916970691163605in"
height="5.2363801399825025in"}

![](vertopal_f34718ae59a246dfaa78c198269045bd/media/image64.png){width="5.903080708661418in"
height="1.604248687664042in"}

-   First we have library keyword -- libraries are similar to contracts
    but with a few differences. For our purposes, libraries allow us to
    use the using keyword, which automatically tacks on all of the
    library's methods to another data type.

![](vertopal_f34718ae59a246dfaa78c198269045bd/media/image65.png){width="4.778023840769904in"
height="1.2986778215223098in"}

-   The mul and add functions each require 2 arguments, but when we
    declare using SafeMath for uint, the uint we call the function on (
    test ) is automatically passed in as the first argument.

![](vertopal_f34718ae59a246dfaa78c198269045bd/media/image66.png){width="5.923915135608049in"
height="1.340346675415573in"}

Basically add just adds 2 uints like +, but it also contains an assert
statement to make sure the sum is greater than a. This protects us from
overflows. The assert statement is also similar to require, where it
will throw an error if false.

-   Note the difference between the assert and require

![](vertopal_f34718ae59a246dfaa78c198269045bd/media/image67.png){width="5.3420363079615045in"
height="1.0820898950131235in"}

![](vertopal_f34718ae59a246dfaa78c198269045bd/media/image68.png){width="4.9794225721784775in"
height="3.5001793525809273in"}

![](vertopal_f34718ae59a246dfaa78c198269045bd/media/image69.png){width="5.1322080052493435in"
height="4.423838582677165in"}

![](vertopal_f34718ae59a246dfaa78c198269045bd/media/image70.png){width="4.944698162729659in"
height="2.8126443569553805in"}

Thanks Ayush for looping me in. 

Hello Aravind,

Hope you are doing well!

We are grateful to Elastic for its guidance and support in our past
editions as the Gold sponsor for hackCBS 3.0 and Associate sponsor for
hackCBS 4.0. The response which we received, the engagement we were able
to create and the hacker experience that we had, all this would not have
been possible without your support. This year we are back on ground with
hackCBS 5.0 being an in-person hackathon and we hope to make it even
bigger than before. Hence, we look forward to a prosperous collaboration
together.

This time the hackers are out of their homes and ever ready to build a
hack so, we aim to target a much bigger audience with hackCBS 5.0 .

I'd love to have the opportunity to tell you more about the event and
see how we can take this forward. What does your calendar look like for
a brief chat or meeting this week or probably next week?
